
# Elixxir Mixnet PKI

## Introduction

As mentioned in the [threat model](threat_model.md), the mixnet PKI
system holds the authority over all the privacy and security notions
of the entire mix network. For example an adversary that compromises
the PKI can swap out the old mix cascades for his own mix cascades
where the adversary knows all the cMix keys and can therefore link
senders and receivers. Additionally the PKI system is responsible for
distributing public key material for our wire protocol
authentication. Therefore all the other privacy and security
guarantees of the mixnet all depend on the PKI not being compromised
by the adversary.

Elixxir engineering efforts have been iterative. Currently the PKI is
a single server (permissioning server[^1]) however the implementation
in the future will be fully decentralized and involve the Elixxir
blockchain and BFT consensus protocols. These implementation details
of the PKI are outside the scope of this document which only attempts
to describe the high level abstraction of the mixnet PKI. Here we will
discuss how the PKI is used by the various components in our mixnet:
clients, gateways and mix nodes.

Just like other network components, the PKI uses the mixnet's [wire
protocol](wire.md) (which is essentially gRPC over TLS). The PKI's
purpose is to publish and distribute the "network view"
documents to the other network components. In the Elixxir mixnet the
"network view" is composed of a NDF (network definition file).
The NDF acts as a sort of DNS zone file for the entire network
but includes port numbers and cryptographic keying material necessary
for the xx protocol stack, similar to the consensus document
(generated by the Tor network's Directory Authority system) in Tor.

The PKI document contains X.509 certificates which are used by the
network components for their TLS authentication. Additionally the mix
cascade hierarchy is enforced by this TLS authentication by means
of certificates distributed in the PKI document.

Currently, a permissioning server[^1], which will be replaced by 
blockchain consensus, generates and signs the NDF. The cMix nodes poll
the permissioning server for the "Full" NDF, which consists of all
network connectivity information. The cMix gateways poll their local 
cMix node for both a "Partial" and "Full" NDF. A Partial NDF does not
contain connectivity information for other nodes, and clients are able
to poll any cMix gateways for the Partial NDF.

Diagram: Permissioning (generates NDF) -> Nodes -> Gateways -> Clients

- Gateways don't talk to permissioning
- Clients don't talk to nodes or permissioning

Similar to how cacheing DNS resolvers prevent clients from having to
talk directly to the authoritative servers, xx clients don't need to talk
to PKI system directly because the NDF and mix rounds information is
cached and made available by the Gateways.

The NDF contains a list of "Nodes" (cMix nodes) and "Gateways" (cMix gateways) 
that detail the address and the PEM encoded TLS X.509 public keys for 
each entity. An example of this data structure from a Partial NDF is as follows: 

```json
{
  "...": "...",
  "Gateways": [
    {
      "Id": "6ZTH8Y01DHrRFahBtLjF4uRTPed/JuM1R12lr2A2hv0B",
      "Address": "161.35.228.41:22840",
      "Tls_certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...==\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n",
      "Bin": "NorthAmerica"
    },
    "...": "...", 
  ],
  "Nodes": [
    {
      "Id": "6ZTH8Y01DHrRFahBtLjF4uRTPed/JuM1R12lr2A2hv0C",
      "Address": "",
      "Tls_certificate": "",
      "Status": 0
    },
    {},
  ],
  "...": "...",
  
}
```

## PKI document format

The complete gRPC schema can be found here:

https://git.xx.network/elixxir/comms/-/blob/release/mixmessages/mixmessages.proto


Here we have the NDF which is opaque because it's signed:

	// The Network Definition File is defined as a
	// JSON structure in primitives/ndf. Can be provided in a
	// "complete" and "incomplete" format. An incomplete
	// NDF is provided to level 4 (ie clients) to protect the inner levels
	message NDF{
		bytes Ndf = 1;
		messages.RSASignature Signature = 2;
	}

Whereas the inner NDF structure is defined elsewhere ( https://gitlab.com/xx_network/primitives/-/blob/release/ndf/ndf.go ) :

	// NetworkDefinition structure hold connection and network information. It
	// matches the JSON structure generated in Terraform.
	type NetworkDefinition struct {
		Timestamp     time.Time
		Gateways      []Gateway
		Nodes         []Node
		Registration  Registration
		Notification  Notification
		UDB           UDB   `json:"Udb"`
		E2E           Group `json:"E2e"`
		CMIX          Group `json:"Cmix"`
		AddressSpace  []AddressSpace
		ClientVersion string 	// Ids that bypass rate limiting
		WhitelistedIds []string 	// Ips that bypass rate limiting
		WhitelistedIpAddresses []string 	//Details on how gateways will rate limit clients
		RateLimits RateLimiting
	}



## The Future Decentralized PKI

	Here we should include links to the documentation about the “PKI”
    blockchain consensus BFT protocols that we are using for the
    future decentralized PKI system


[^1] https://git.xx.network/elixxir/registration
